Usage:

try it out with: 
  mvn install

That will run the tests which demonstrate the correct functioning of the web
service. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Summary of design:

There are many ways that this could be done, but I tried to balance not taking
too much time on it, yet still demonstrating some of my skills at the same time.
The basic idea for the duplicate checker service is to identify similarities,
assign a weight to each match, add up those weights, and see if it is a
sufficiently high number to consider it a potential duplicate. Because the
soundex function is easily found in most database systems, I used that for a
quick fuzzy comparison of string values.  A first name match, for example,
doesn't have as much weight as a last name match, since it is so common for two
people to have the same first name. Likewise, if a phone number matches, that
has a high weight that guarantees it's marked as a duplicate, since it is very
unlikely for two customers to have the same phone number. The algorithm is
easily tweaked, and the performance cost is a single table scan, since indexes
couldn't be used in this case. There are many techniques which could be used to
speed this up, if necessary, such as recording the soundex values in a separate
column (or table), and indexing those. How much this would help would depend on
the number of customer records and the number of columns in the table. Of
course, a more powerful, external indexing service could also be used. 

I created a simple database abstraction which separated the main body of code
from the implementation details of how the data is stored and retrieved, which
I've found immensely useful over the years.  Behind that I used JOOQ to generate
compiler checked / sql injection proof sql. The beauty of this approach is that,
by just changing one line of code, I could connect to a MySQL, or a H2, or a
Postgres db, with the exception of the database setup code, which ideally would
be managed by a framework like flyway anyway.

Everything was done using basic test driven development techniques, forcing all
of the code to be easily testable and modular. Code coverage, although not
perfect, is naturally quite high. 

All of the code was built by me in the last few days, with the exception of the
automatically generated code in the demo.generated package, which is used by
JOOQ. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Postmortem:

Things went fairly smoothly except for a dependency mismatch I had which took
several hours of barking up the wrong tree before I found the issue. 

As far as lessons learned, I did end up having to make some duplicate code that
I didn't like, because of conflicts between the JOOQ framework and the Jersey
when it comes to automatically configuring the entity classes. If I had more
time I would create code generators that would allow the essential information
to be in one place. Also, having the database setup code as pure sql is less
clean than I'd like it to be. I'd prefer to use a framework that can create and
maintain the schema based on the core java entities. Integrating flyway would
probably do the trick. It would also be nice to have a full searching engine
framework in place too, like SOLR or ElasticSearch.


